They have the package.
(screams)
I'm an American citizen.
Don't let him do this!
Move,
or I will shoot through you.
(gunshot)
He's dead.
The prisoner who got
away is Davis Goundry.
GALLO:
We stumbled onto something here.
No idea what it means.
We lied in our debriefs.
We're good as long
as our stories match.
Two suits came by
my office today,
wanting to know what records
you've been asking for.
I think they were CIA.
How does the Agency even
know we went to her?
They're watching us.
HASKINS:
Jimmy Kam's been captured
along with Sergeant Hendrix.
I am Muslim.
You never said so before.
What are you?
My name is Khalid Samatar.
I will exchange them
for 50 ISIS prisoners.
Davis Goundry's sister
just called me.
And the fact that
he and Khalid
were both holding a domino,
I think they may have
been working together.
No. No way.
What if we made a mistake
that night in Somalia?
What if we let
a terrorist go free?
You positive you
weren't followed?
I was the only car on the road.
Look, you are jumping to
some big conclusions here.
Just because the CIA
talks to Goundry's sister,
asks about his loyalty,
that doesn't make him
a traitor.
Goundry and Khalid
are connected.
They both had that domino.
Clearly, it's some kind
of a symbol.
Maybe a calling card
of some sort?
"Clearly" is going
a little bit far.
Think about it, Gallo.
If Goundry was a CIA agent
who turned,
that would explain
why the Agency wanted him dead.
And why they worked so hard
to cover it up.
Yeah, it would.
And we let him
go free.
Hey...
Look, you know the saying
"Don't dig up more snakes
than you can kill"?
People outside of Texas
don't say that.
It means
don't make more trouble
when you already got plenty.
We have to focus on
getting Jimmy back.
Because if we did make
the wrong call over there,
this is our chance
to do something right.
(softly):
Yeah.
*
Khalid's negotiator has agreed
to a two-for-one deal--
Sergeants Kam and Hendrix
for Khalid's brother Mustaf.
If the intel committee can help
us get approval on his release,
then we can move forward.
The United States government
doesn't
negotiate with terrorists.
Of course, ma'am,
but Khalid's not,
technically, a terrorist.
He's a warlord in an
autonomous region of Somalia.
Potato, potahto.
You understand
that this decision
isn't up to us alone?
I'm sure my son
explained that to you.
If word of this leaked,
it'd be an open invitation
to kidnap U.S. citizens.
Your committee can make
or break this deal.
We need time to discuss.
We did you the courtesy
of coming down here
to listen,
but we're not like the army.
We do not make life
and death decisions
on the spur of the moment.
(gunfire on video game)
Come on, die, mother...
Easy, man.
This game's way
too violent for me.
What?
They're having a long
meeting in there.
Hope your, uh,
boyfriend's mom comes through.
They all know the exchange is
the right call.
You know
a prisoner exchange
is not gonna be
a walk in the park.
Fog cover is heavy
this time of year, Nora.
Yeah, I saw that
in the brief, too.
Don't worry,
Madani's the master
at instrument flying.
And what, exactly, is that?
It's a technique
for low-viz situations.
Where you fly off
instrument reading only.
Hence, the name.
That doesn't make me feel
any better, 'cause
I barely trust you two
when you can see
where you're going.
Here I thought we were
cool now, Sergeant.
Oh, we're cool.
It's just my personality.
(Gallo chuckles)
Cute.
Hope you really are
the master, though,
'cause, uh, we're all gonna
be counting on you.
You really did not need
to do this, Mrs. Haskins.
Please, call me Mae.
And it's my pleasure.
The colonel and I
want you to know
we're here if you need us.
Well, thank you.
Max will love these.
The birthday barbecue,
it's at our place
on Saturday.
I know it's Jimmy's
this month,
and we'd love
to have you there.
Of course I will come.
(laughter)
And thank you again,
Mrs. Haskins.
Uh...
(sighs)
I-I know.
But your husband is still
my husband's boss,
so "Mrs. Haskins"
just feels right.
Well, if there's
anything else you need,
don't hesitate to call.
I know we haven't spent
much time together, Jess,
but this unit's
a family,
and you'll always
be a part of it.
(blows landing, Crank groaning)
Hey. Hey, hey.
You all right?
Not as all right as you.
JIMMY:
I'm not the enemy here.
Yeah?
They're not beating you.
You're speaking Arabic
to 'em all the time.
For all I know, you're having
Muslim tea parties over there.
Shh, shh, shh.
I have a plan, okay?
As long as they keep us apart,
we have no chance
of getting out of here.
Shh.
I won't eat unless you start
feeding us the same.
CRANK:
That's your plan?
They're gonna beat you
as bad as they do me.
Yeah?
I guess we'll find out.
(moaning)
I got to say, we are
getting pretty good at this.
Well, practice
makes perfect, huh?
I don't mean
just the sex.
I mean us.
Us?
Well, don't get your
panties in a bunch.
I'm not proposing.
I'm just saying I think
we get each other.
I think so, too, sweetheart.
Hey, there's something
I wanted to talk to you about.
You're gonna think
I'm crazy.
(chuckles)
I already think
you're crazy.
That's why I like you.
What's up?
I think I'm being watched.
Followed, too.
Ever since I got
you those files.
Huh.
Am I being paranoid?
Yeah.
Yeah, probably.
The next time you think
you see something,
just let me know.
All right?
Copy that, soldier.
(chuckles)
Hey, you heading out?
No.
I'm glad you're still here.
I wanted to tell you
before you heard
tomorrow morning.
They said no.
(softly):
Yeah.
The committee won't
approve it.
A prisoner exchange is
too much of a political risk.
Khalid's deadline is
in four days.
I know.
And we are already working
on an alternate plan.
Nora...
(whispering):
Nora.
I've got to get
back in there.
Oh, no.
What happened to the beer?
(laughs)
You have money?
I don't have any...
I don't have any money,
but Kev's loaded.
He got an enlistment bonus.
Not blowing it on booze.
How about your dad?
Where's he at?
I haven't seen him
in a few days, again.
Man, your dad
is the boss.
Like, he gets it done.
You're kidding, right?
I mean, the man makes
a good living.
Selling oxy,
when he's not
using it.
See, this is why
I enlisted.
To get out of
this crap town
and make something
of myself.
(snickers)
You sound like a commercial.
Like, "Be all you can be."
Get told what to do
every second of the day.
Get sent to some desert to have
people try to kill you 24/7.
So, what, after
graduation,
you're just gonna stay
here and deal drugs
like your dad-- is that it?
(door opens)
Bobby, Kevin, you can leave now.
I'll call you later.
I told you I don't like them
hanging around here.
Mija, if you don't watch it,
you're gonna end up like me.
No, I'm not.
GALLO: Some more cargo straps,
and, uh, top her off with fuel.
Yeah.
Morning, sir.
Hey, check this.
Anna thinks she's
being followed.
CIA?
Yeah, sounds like it.
This keeps getting crazier.
You haven't told her
anything, have you?
No, of course not.
I didn't realize you guys
were still dating.
I, I wouldn't call it dating,
but whatever it is...
it's working.
I'm happy for you.
Why are we even
talking about this?
The point is,
we need to be
more careful now.
No more midnight visits.
Our sources indicate this
as a possible location
for Sergeants Kam and Hendrix.
We're running with that.
It's gonna be
a smash-and-grab operation.
Two Black Hawks,
two Little Birds.
With the prisoner exchange
off the table,
this is our best shot,
especially now that
there's only 72 hours
until that deadline expires.
You said "possible location."
How possible?
Our analysts are putting
the probability at 30%.
(murmuring)
We got to do something
about this.
A 30% chance is crazy.
I could throw a dart
at a map of Puntland
and get 30%.
Maybe if you
just explain
to her how dangerous plan B is,
then she'll understand...
PORTER: My mother doesn't
take orders from me.
But she does have
a lot of clout.
Simone Porter is
a political animal.
She doesn't do anything
unless it helps her.
(sighs):
The only way
that she's gonna lobby
for a prisoner exchange
is if she's getting
something valuable in return.
So give her something.
(ringtone plays)
(chuckles)
What's wrong?
It's Anna.
Yeah.
Ian.
I will go to her again,
but... (sighs)
I don't think it's gonna help.
Just try?
Have a seat.
This is really just
an informational meeting for me.
Of course.
Though confidentiality
is of the utmost
importance to us.
So, how exactly does this work?
So, our company is
mostly hired on retainer
for large corporations
to handle kidnapping
and extortion scenarios.
We very discreetly
work out a way to
get the victim back
for the right price.
No police, no publicity.
Do you even take
personal cases?
It depends on the
circumstances.
I should warn you,
the cost can be substantial.
But our success rate
is very high.
I didn't tell them anything,
but they said they'd wait
in case I changed my mind.
Whoa, Anna, slow down.
Wait. Where?
These two guys came to the door.
They wanted to know
about our relationship.
If you've shared any
classified material with me.
Which you haven't--
I told them that.
And then what happened?
They just got back
in their car.
I'll be right back.
It's gonna be fine.
Hey!
Jackass!
(tires screech)
You leave her out
of this, okay?
You guys got questions
for me, you come to me.
Are you done?
No.
You bother her again,
you and I are gonna have
a big problem.
You're CIA, right?
You working for Officer Thea?
Why don't you pass
this message on
to her, too.
Now we're done.
*
(classical music playing)
(knocking)
Come.
Colonel, I hope
I'm not interrupting.
What can I do for you?
Jimmy Kam's wife
recently contacted
Extreme Crisis Solutions,
a private ransom
negotiation firm,
about getting
her husband back.
And you know this how?
Ever since Sergeant Kam
called her,
we've been monitoring
her phone and laptop.
If he ever reaches out again,
we'd want to know immediately.
Surveillance is what
the Agency does best, Colonel.
If only I could tap
every phone I wanted to.
If you don't mind,
it's a home run ball
hit by Hank Aaron.
(exhales)
I'm gonna need you
to talk to her.
Because I think
we both understand
how big of a problem this is.
It could compromise
the entire operation.
Might take a lighter touch
than mine,
but it will be taken care of.
Thank you, Colonel.
Look at us agreeing.
Doesn't that feel good
to finally be on the same page?
Hmm.
Feels amazing.
PORTER:
A prisoner exchange is our
best shot at getting them back.
There must be
something
you can do.
(sighs) A lot of arms
would have to be twisted,
a lot of political capital
would have to be spent
to get this revisited.
I'm not sure that's wise.
Who cares if it's wise, Mom?
It's right.
If the exchange turns out
to be a disaster,
it could blow back on me.
Are you sure you don't
want to stay for dinner?
Can't remember the last time
we had a meal together.
We both know
that never goes well.
I find that very
hurtful, Ian.
This is about two men's lives.
Does that really
not matter to you?
(softly):
Okay.
I'll make some calls.
But...
Oh, here it is.
(scoffs)
I'll need something
in return from you.
The way the CIA has
been running things
hasn't exactly bolstered
my trust in them.
I have particular questions
about Officer Thea.
Drives me crazy how the
CIA never use last names.
Yeah, it's a security thing, Ma.
I know,
but still.
I want copies of all the e-mails
Thea has sent
since she's been on base.
(chuckles):
You're kidding me.
You work in intel.
You have training
in cyber operations.
Oh, just-just
to be clear,
you want me to hack
into a CIA officer's e-mails?
What happens if I get caught?
You're too good to get caught.
(exhales)
This is about two men's lives.
Two guys were trying to scare
Anna into talking last night.
She didn't say anything
to 'em, but I did.
You don't have to be a
cowboy 24/7, you know.
It's my fault
they're watching her.
I don't know how much longer
I can put her through this.
I don't think they're
gonna stop, Gallo.
Yeah. Okay, last thing--
mission business.
Yeah.
If we do hit
zero visibility over Puntland,
I want you taking the controls.
I mean, I'm good
at instrument flying,
but... you are badass.
You know it kills me
to say it.
Hey.
You with me?
Yeah. Yeah, of course.
Okay, good.
I'll meet you at the colonel's.
Oh, the barbecue.
I forgot.
Hey, in the meantime,
go drum or, you know, do
what you do to get ready.
You got to be on your
game for this mission.
We both do.
(up-tempo drumbeat playing)
(panting)
Bobby?
Hey. It's Nora.
Yeah. Yeah, I know, I know.
It's been a long time.
Um... listen,
I think I might need a favor.
I had a prescription,
but it's done.
And, uh...
I need help.
Thank you all for coming.
It's important to recognize
our soldiers' birthdays,
even if we do cram
a month's worth into one day.
So happy birthday.
(whooping)
I appreciate y'all coming
to celebrate.
Especially since
it gives me a chance
to show off my skills
at the grill. Right, babe?
Okay, wrap it up.
These people want to eat.
All right,
well, y'all heard the boss.
Your orders are simple--
you eat a lot
and you have a great time.
(music playing)
*
Hi.
Hey there.
You doing okay
with all this?
Yeah. It's good for Max
to be with other kids.
(laughing)
And I'm having a pretty
good time, too, actually.
You seem to be
doing better.
I've decided that
I can't keep waiting
for other people
to help me through this.
I need to do it on my own.
Yeah.
I know how that feels.
MAX:
Mom, come here.
(pills rattling in bottle)
What's going on?
I'm sorry, hija.
I have to get out of town.
Work went south.
Were you even gonna tell me
you were going?
If I hadn't come home in time?
Of course I was, hija.
But like you said,
you're 18 now--
you can make your own choices.
We'll be in touch when
things settle down.
*
(door opens)
(door bangs shut)
(stammering)
(yells)
Wait...
Please...
(shouts)
(screaming)
When you are offered
a gift of food,
you must be grateful
and accept it.
Otherwise you insult your host.
I do not like to be insulted.
So...
there will be no more food
for a while.
(coughing)
Jimmy.
(door closes)
I know you did
this for me.
But it didn't help anything.
Looks like a great party
over here.
(laughs softly)
Hey, any updates from your mom?
No. She is still working on it.
How about you?
You waiting on a call
from the president?
Huh?
Oh, no, sorry. Just
waiting to hear back
from a friend.
COOGAN:
Here they are.
The pride of the Shadow Raiders.
What's going on, guys?
GALLO:
Yeah, I'm just...
so glad you could
make it today, Coogan.
Just wanted to wish us
good luck. Come on.
Okay.
And I wanted to ask
a question, too.
What really happened in Somalia
with you two?
PORTER:
Hey, Staff Sergeant.
(chuckles)
You had too much to drink.
Don't you forget
who outranks who here.
Wait, whoa,
whoa, whoa.
What was it, six days?
And we're just supposed
to believe that you two
didn't rub each other's bodies
together to keep warm?
Watch it, Coogan.
I'm just saying,
I don't care,
I just don't want it
affecting our work,
'cause I need to trust that you
and you,
got my ass.
And not just each other's.
GALLO: Hey! Hey.
Get out of my face, Coogan!
PORTER: You're going after
two officers, Coogan.
You want to be charged
with misconduct?
Hey, hey, that's enough.
Don't let him get to you.
He's just trying to push
your buttons.
HASKINS:
That's enough.
Yeah, well, it's working.
Now, you got issues,
you work them out
somewhere else, not in my yard.
But you will work them out.
Is that clear?
Lima Charlie?
Yes, sir.
Loud and clear.
Sir.
(phone ringing)
HASKINS:
Are you coming, Nora?
I'm all right.
I got to take this.
*
Sir, I'm good. I'm good.
(phone continues ringing)
MADANI:
Hey, Bobby.
Yeah.
Kevin can help?
All right. Thanks.
I'll be right there.
MADANI:
Kevin?
Hey.
(exhales)
You look good.
So do you.
No, I don't.
(chuckles softly)
I look like a guy
that sells drugs for a living.
Bet you never thought
I'd be the one here,
while Bobby's got the family
and the job.
He said you could help me?
You still in the service?
Ten years.
Got to admit,
I was, um...
(laughs softly)
I was shocked
when I heard you enlisted.
Yeah, well, life takes you down
strange paths, I guess, huh?
Like coming to me
to buy painkillers?
Thanks.
Come on in.
So it really never bothers you
that your husband can't tell you
more about what he does?
Oh, it's the life I chose.
But my husband does tell me
some things.
And he...
asked me to talk with you.
About what?
About a choice
you're considering.
Do you really
want to risk
compromising the plans
to save your husband?
If Colonel Haskins
was over there...
...wouldn't you do
everything you could
to get him back?
What I would do
is have some faith in the army.
Since our husbands
have devoted their lives to it.
I mean, let's
face it.
This country divided as it is,
army's one of the only
institutions we can still trust.
(speaking indistinctly)
The shrapnel was still
in my shoulder,
and I could barely move it, so
they gave me an early discharge.
The pain was bad,
I got hooked on the pills,
and well,
now, here we are.
I'm sorry.
That's not gonna
happen to me.
Maybe.
Maybe not.
They help with
other things, too.
Of course.
Not just the pain.
Yeah.
Joining the army's
the best thing I ever did.
But it can be brutal.
Physically
and mentally.
You can go one of
two ways with that.
I don't want you to go mine.
Which is why
I'm not gonna
sell you these.
What?
Kevin, no-- listen.
I have to do a certain kind of
flying-- it's instrument-only--
and... it's what
everyone looks to me for.
People could die
if I'm not on top of my game.
And, and right now, these pills
are what get me there.
No. Nora. Nora.
No.
(sirens wailing in distance)
Please.
Just this one time.
(sighs)
Don't come back to me,
'cause I won't do this again.
I thought we had
a good thing going here.
I'm not looking
for anything more.
I know that.
Then I don't get this.
Look. Let's not make it
harder than it has to be.
All right?
I just want to know why.
(sighs)
I guess I'm just not
feeling it anymore.
(stifled laugh)
(phone chimes)
You got to go, huh?
Yeah, I do.
Emergency briefing.
Hey.
I'm sorry.
(door opens, closes)
Ladies and gentlemen,
the commander.
All right, take a seat.
Thanks to some
backchanneling
by Lieutenant Porter,
the prisoner exchange is a go.
But we're up against
the clock here.
So you'll board the
C-17 for Somalia
as soon as this briefing's over.
I will be joining
you in the field
for this deployment.
It's my ass on the line
if the exchange goes poorly;
I'm gonna be there to manage it.
This is Khalid's brother.
He's currently being transported
from a black site
to Camp Lemonnier in Somalia.
He's not in good health
after years of CIA captivity.
From Lemonnier,
you will transport him
to a meeting
with Khalid's negotiator.
And it'll happen here,
at a small airstrip at the base
of the Golis Mountains.
Khalid has demanded that we have
one helicopter at the airstrip.
That'll be Captain Gallo's
and Ms. Madani's.
Ms. Madani is the best in
the unit at instrument flying.
So given the weather,
I want her getting
us into the LZ.
Yes, sir.
Let's get our boys back.
ALL:
Hooah!
So, uh...
what'd you have to promise
your mom in exchange for this?
Nothing important.
Come back to me safe.
I will.
It's your first time
on a military op, isn't it?
You nervous?
Well, no, they've got me
in the right outfit,
so I guess I'm good to
go. No need to worry.
I'll tell you
what does worry me.
You having me tailed.
I'm willing
to bet a bundle
it was you sent those two goons
to my friend's place.
Not sure what you're
talking about, Captain.
Look, now I know
I'm being followed,
I won't be followed.
You catch my drift?
You got questions, you ask me.
There's no need
for this cloak-and-dagger.
I'm gonna assume that silence
means we're good.
No. No, we're not good.
Okay, I read your debrief,
and Ms. Madani's.
And what you said about
those six days in Somalia,
that could not have sounded
more rehearsed.
You even used
some of the same language.
Not many different ways
to say the word "crash."
We can end all this
very easily, Captain.
You just need
to tell me
what really happened over there.
We already did.
(plane passing by overhead)
Hey.
(sighs)
(clears throat)
How'd it go with Thea?
Yeah, she's just fishing.
Probably gonna turn
up the heat, though.
She still following Anna?
Nah, I doubt it.
I ended things.
It's the only way I could make
sure they'd leave her alone.
Sorry to hear.
Thought you started
to like her.
You know, you're the last person
I want to talk to about this.
And yet you still do.
I'm gonna get some rest.
Hey.
Just think:
if all goes well,
36 hours from now,
we'll have Jimmy back.
It wil go well.
WOMAN:
Hey.
You okay?
I'm fine.
Just fell asleep.
I'm moving.
You smell like
you drank a keg.
Yeah, I went out
with some friends,
and... didn't quite
make it home.
What kind of a cop
are you, anyway?
(chuckles softly)
I'm not.
I work at the recruitment center
a few blocks from here.
Right.
Thanks for getting me up.
Is there anyone I
can call for you?
Family?
No. (sniffles)
There's definitely no one
you can call for me.
Maybe you want to come
in, chat sometime?
(chuckles)
I'm not exactly
army material, lady.
Maybe you just need
a fresh start.
We're good at those.
*
(door bangs open)
(grunts in pain)
No. No.
(panting):
Thank you for doing this.
Hurting you before
was not my choice.
This is for you.
Hey. What just happened?
I convinced him that
us being here together
will keep us healthy.
(panting)
Dead Americans...
aren't as valuable
as living ones.
I guess he got Khalid to agree.
When'd you do that?
You know...
at one of our
"Muslim tea parties."
I guess you
actually did have a plan.
Now we need another one.
A way to get out of here.
But it'll be a lot easier
now that we're together.
(panting)
You did good, rotor-head.
I think...
that today...
might be my birthday.
(laughing)
(groans)
(laughs)
(both laughing)
Happy birthday.
(laughing)
I'm sure this is exactly
how you planned spending it.
Yeah.
*
Thanks for seeing me.
Of course.
So you've thought more
about our conversation?
Yeah.
I don't want to move ahead.
I see. Is it
the expense, or...?
I did some thinking.
I decided to
put my trust
in the people that my husband
trusts with his life.
Feels like the
right thing to do.
And you're positive
this is what you want?
Because you could have told me
all of this in a phone call.
These days, this is the only way
that I can be sure
that no one else is listening.
MADANI:
So that's Khalid's brother.
Hard to believe this one
guy could be the key
to getting Jimmy back.
DARZI: He can barely walk.
We could use
another hand back here.
You have the controls.
I have the controls.
COOGAN:
Almost time to do
your magic flying, Madani.
Move.
All right, he's in.
THEA:
We're ready to go.
We're good to go, sir.
Anchor Zero-Six,
this is Renegade One-Two.
We have the package.
Let's do this.
*
DARZI:
The fog's getting too thick.
The NVGs are useless.
You good to do this?
Because if not,
you need to tell me.
I have a prescription
for those pills.
Still no way
you should be taking them during
a flight.
(exhales)
I'm squared away.
I'm squared away, sir.
You have the controls.
I have the controls.
Anchor Zero-Six,
we're two hours out.
Any updates
on the weather? Over.
Looks like the fog clears out
in 40 miles-- just got
to hold out till then. Over.
MADANI:
Roger that.
Sir. Colonel Collins here
is gonna cover me for a moment.
You mind if I run to the SCIF?
All right, LT.
Hammer One-One,
status report. Over.
MAN:
Anchor O-Six.
We're 80 klicks out. Over.
GALLO:
We're coming up
on a tricky area.
A couple of mountain peaks.
Be careful.
I got this, sir.
*
It's clearing up ahead.
You got us through it.
Told you I would.
GALLO: Anchor Zero-Six,
weather has cleared.
NVGs are back in business.
(groans)
Hey.
He's not responding.
(groaning, gasping)
We got a problem back here. The
prisoner seems to be convulsing.
"Seems" to be?
Uh, yeah. He could be faking it.
I don't know.
It doesn't look like
he's faking it, sir.
Get the CLS kit!
He's going into shock!
GALLO:
What's happening back there?
Nothing good, sir.
Oh, God.
How bad is it?
It's pretty bad.
I think he's dead.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org